you can't do it politically you just
literally cannot do it okay transparent
financing unless out transparent
anything all transparent spending I mean
the this bill was written in a tortured
way to make sure CBO did not score the
mandate is taxes his CB 0 squared the
mangas taxes to build dies ok so it's
written to do that in terms of in terms
of RIS rated subsidies if you'd a law
which said healthy people are going to
pay in it made explicit the hell people
pain and sick people get money it would
not have passed okay just like to help
people transparent lack of transparency
is a huge political advantage and
basically you know call to stupid the
American voter or whatever but basically
that was really really critical to get
anything to pass and you know it's the
second best argument look I wish mark
was right we can make it all transparent
but I'd rather have this law than not so
it's kind of like his reporter story you
know yeah this thing's I wish you could
change but I'd rather have this law last
decade I've been actually working in
healthcare and working in health care
has really opened my eyes you know when
I was in the legislature I thought there
were a lot of problems facing the state
facing the nation you know crime
economic development race relations you
named Igor 8 downloads education roads
who's we talk about Michigan's but after
after I began to work in healthcare it
became very evident to me that really
the the problems the nation faces in
terms of its health care system the
delivery system is really much more
significant than people realize and you
know really tonight I don't want to talk
an awful long time in terms of the
speech I just want to give you some
facts and figures and hopefully prompt
some thinking about things because
frankly there's a lot to think about in
terms of the delivery system that we are
presently enjoying if some of us enjoy
it if you have great health care others
don't if you don't have such good health
care but I can tell you this it's going
to change there's just no question it's
going to change it's just a question of
when it's going to change and how much
it's going to change and when I say
change i'm not talking about you know
the Affordable Care Act the Affordable
Care Act did change things but there's
going
a lot of other changes that are taking
place and some of the changes eventually
people are not gonna like I mean they
didn't we didn't you know Republicans
and I'm one of you obviously I'm my
living as such when I was a young man I
don't care for the Affordable Care Act I
think it was it was a bad move but let
me let me let me step back and tell you
a few reasons why I don't care for the
Affordable Care Act well it's a misnomer
be right the affordability issue is you
know it might be affordable to some but
but those are going to ultimately have
to pay it aren't going to be able to
afford it will show the taxpayers but
there's only three components to health
care in my mind there's a quality
component you know what's the quality of
health care that we're delivering in
this nation there's a cost component
where what's the overall cost for
healthcare in terms of our delivery
system and then thirdly there's a
political component and the political
component is the most interesting
component because they can put the
political component ignores the first
two components the political component
ignores the cost component and it
ignores the quality component okay and
and the political component says more
more more we need more more and more we
need more everything basically in
healthcare and and they can tell you
that they don't say that but when you
when you really look at what's going on
that's in fact what's happening the cost
component says hey you know we've got to
really start looking at costs start
figuring out ways to trim costs start
figuring out ways to be more
cost-effective start figuring out ways
to have better quote quality and cost
outcomes so that we can afford this this
this delivery system that we have
created or at least afford a good
delivery system and then the quality
component looks at things like the way
our healthcare system in this nation is
delivered and basically we deliver
health care it's what I would call an
episodic system when you have an episode
you go to a doctor all right that's when
you go to a doctor you don't go to a
doctor because you are a diabetic and
you need to constantly most people don't
go to the doctor because they're
diabetics need to constantly maintain
control of their diabetes issue or they
don't go to the doctor for health and
wellness purposes they don't go to the
doctors stay well they only was a doctor
when they're sick okay so you know
there's that that there's the fact that
we exist in a very
fractured system the system is fractured
and I and I say it's fractured because
you know when you have primary care
physicians and specialists sharing the
same patient oftentimes they don't even
know what they're doing with the same
patient they have no clue all right in
addition to that you overlay out a
health system like a hospital system and
the hospital system then gets in the act
and you know what the doctors don't know
what that what the hell systems doing
just a small example we there's
something called medical or medicine
reconciliation when patients discharged
in the hospital so if somebody goes the
hospital give you an example of this
fractured system the hospital might say
that Quinn Aleut is an appropriate drug
for arrhythmias the doctor might have
you on a different medication but that
you get out of the hospital you go back
to the doctor if if you actually get
back to the doctor a lot of people don't
make it back on time and that's why they
end up back in the hospital because they
don't have a follow-up visit into in the
requisite amount of time and and you
show the doctor if again if the person
is not elderly and they you know they
they have a good handle on their care
all the medicines are now on and their
doctor tell why you on this medicine I
had you on that medicine why are you on
this medicine I had you on that medicine
and the thing is the doctors don't know
if it's just a hospital formulary in
other words that that's the drug the
hospital the drug of choice hospital
uses or if there was an actual reason to
put that in that medicine in the
regiment the patients and medicine
regimen so again that's part of the
fracture and the other thing is this
whole concept of you know records we all
have medical records and and and so
there's a competing there's a competing
issue here we all cherish our privacy
but at the same time if something
happens to us and we're not in Grosse
Ile Michigan we happen to be in
charlevoix Michigan good luck with
trying to and you end up an emergency
room good luck with trying to help those
emergency room doctors figure out what's
wrong with you you could have just had a
cat scan because you had you've had high
blood pressure you've had some serious
headaches
could have just had a cat scan at
wyandotte hospital henry ford wyandotte
and if you end up in the emergency room
at munson in Traverse City and you walk
in and you say my visions blurred I'm
having extreme headaches I'm nauseous I
vomited you know what you're going to
get cat scan you're going to get another
one alright and you're going to get
another one of the most expensive
setting and if there was a connection
between records where they could log in
and see hey you just had a cat scan two
weeks ago you know why did you change
your medicine to did you did you add a
new melle I did dr. i added i'm taking
antivert you know oh well gee now maybe
there's there's another reason why
you're having this headache you see so
that's part of the quality component
quality problem with healthcare so
stepping back you know the way I view
the healthcare system and the Affordable
Care Act and everything that's taking
place this is the healthcare system is
like a crucial in my opinion okay and
it's a cruise ship that's leaking water
everywhere all right the the staff and
the cruise ship is uncoordinated nobody
really knows what the other person is
doing or supposed to be doing they're
all kind of doing what they think they
should be doing all right and the fuel
in the cruise ship is running out and
there's probably not enough fuel to get
the cruise ship that's leaking that the
staff doesn't know what the other person
is doing and they're all working at
cross-purposes to get to shore and so
what are they all trying to do they're
all trying to fix the cruise ship to
stop the leaks right but they don't know
how they're going to do it in the court
a coordinated fashion you know they're
just they're just doing what they think
they need to do for that given moment
nothing know if there's a leak on deck 6
they're going to go fix the leak on deck
6 and ignore the leak on deck one all
right and that's because again there's
no coordinated effort to fix this system
all right so when you ask well how do
you do that what do you you know what
what what do you what what's a way to
start fixing the system well we really
need to roll back time we need to go
back to two thousand nine nine and and
the enactment of the Affordable Care Act
was probably a bad thing in many
respects because the political players
decided we were going to you know
provide health insurance to everybody in
the United States
well you're providing something that's
not in effect an effective part of an
effective delivery system the delivery
system needs to be fixed before you
start giving people more of it it's like
selling bad pizza if you own a pizzeria
you wouldn't want to be see you know
you'd want to fix your recipe before you
start selling more pizza hopefully that
people brought up by more of your pizza
right you know but in this case it
doesn't matter if the pizza is good or
bad because everybody's got to eat it
right so in this case just dishab warm
it in dish network so when the
Affordable Care Act was passed there's a
lot of things in that in that
legislation but you know probably the
most significant is this whole concept
of the exchange and and the the
inclusion in the system of people who
can't afford to purchase the insurance
on their own requiring employers to
purchase insurance even if they don't
have the money to do so just pushing
more people into this delivery system
and and so what you've done now is
you've created a big big financial costs
associated with the exchange and the
metal plans and people who qualify
people who are four hundred percent or
lower in the poverty level okay because
if you had if your family income or your
income if you're an individual is that
four hundred percent or lower of the
power level then you can get a subsidy
to help pay for your insurance premiums
okay you get it right now in Michigan
but the Supreme Court case king vs.
borewell which is pending before the
United States Supreme Court may in fact
change that because the law says that if
in state-based exchanges those into
those individuals who purchase insurance
in the state exchange will be able to
have a premium subsidy it doesn't say
anything about federal exchanges but you
know the Obama administration decided
that everybody gets a premium subsidies
but let me tell you about the effect of
that okay so since since the Affordable
Care Act has been enacted and here's
what I want to really do is focus on
figures they're just this year there
were ten more million enrollments in the
Indian fordable care invited by people
ten more million Romans nationwide the
nation
right and so what does that do that just
creates more allegiance to the program
right now you got 10 million more people
that are that are purchasing insurance
through the through the exchanges you've
got roughly now they're saying that
there's about the Gallup poll recently
done i think it was in two thousand
actually was just released back in march
or april it said that about eighty-nine
percent of adults are saying that they
have health insurance coverage
eighty-nine percent of adults okay so
what does that mean guess what the next
article you read is that the Affordable
Care Act approvals rising flowing it in
successful stupid man are you stupid I
don't think so no there's MIT employee
stupid people not to my knowledge okay
so you're a smart man who said some as
the ranking member said some really
stupid things and you said the same is
that correct I the comments I made were
really inexcusable okay and I'll leave
aside the political observations but you
did say in your you're in the video we
played and everyone else has seen I
think parts of it you did say that in
fact if people knew the whole truth they
wouldn't have voted for this that in
fact the direction you were going the
the reality and specifically I want to
talk as mr. Goldman's a poster child for
this he has a silver plan that is
relatively inexpensive it was subsidized
to be even cheaper but the shifting of
some people to pay more than they
previously did because remember
healthcare went up in price so for mr.
Goldman to get a reduction somebody else
got not only an increase but an
increased offset his decrease that was
what you were talking about so isn't it
true that in fact between the taxes and
increases for some that's part of the
plan to reduce for people molec mr.
Goldman the first of all I made a
critical mistake in trying to conjecture
with the tone of expertise you know but
you're an expert on the analysis of the
numbers and where the cost shifting goes
in your micro economic analysis and I'm
asking you
as dr. Gruber a smart man a smart man at
a great institution it has collected
over 400 or actually over four million
dollars in various fees and so on your
analysis isn't it true that in order for
mr. Goldman to get his reduction and
he's very happy about it that in fact it
was cost shifting including those
so-called Cadillac plans isn't that true
the affordable care act set up insurance
exchanges which pooled risks for the
healthy and the less healthy on average
when you count for the tax credits
individuals received people are paying
less for health insurance I'm a taxpayer
Mr Gruber trust me people are not paying
less people like me are paying more for
those because taxes are in fact a cost
that's paid total cost did not go down
cost shifting occurred in your model
isn't that true the amount that
individuals have to pay for health
insurance on average fell in my model
will go figure you know if you're
providing more insurance or more and
people are getting more health insurance
then what are people going to do they're
going to say well this is a good program
I you know I think we should continue
this program so at in November of 13 the
Affordable Care Act and Obamacare as
they call it had about a thirty three
percent approval rating in in in excuse
me that has gone up well over now the
approval rate is more than fifty percent
seventy percent of Democrats approve at
only sixteen percent of republicans but
the fact is an independence so at in
November of thirteen the Affordable Care
Act and Obamacare as they call it had
about a thirty three percent approval
rating in in in excuse me that has gone
up well over now the approval rate is
more than fifty percent seventy percent
of Democrats approve at only sixteen
percent of republicans but the fact is
an independence and there's the key the
independents are 4642 so it's very very
close among independent voters so why is
this because we're giving people
something but we're giving people
something that doesn't work
okay so just think about how this whole
you can keep your doctor situation work
right that was a disaster I mean the
president had to apologize i guess i
missed something well really you know i
mean you know you're the president noted
States you would think that with all the
staff you employ all these other folks
and the fact that you're supposed to be
such a bright guy and you know this is
this is uh this is your baby that how
could you miss that well that's how
things work in Washington they've missed
a lot frankly but but in that particular
instance so what the Affordable Care
Act's had a double edged impact well it
has helped some within that poverty
level zone be able to afford insurance
it's also had the effect of causing
people who are in the middle class pain
by causing their insurances to increase
and why is that because under the new
law you have to offer a certain benefit
plan and the benefit plan is all the
things you're entitled to and so where
you might have purchased a good benefit
plan to suit your needs in the past that
benefit plans go on now or will be gone
by the end of this year some some some
carriers kept theirs they allowed people
to do it to the other issue but it will
be gone so the fact is you know once
once that's gone now you're forced into
the Obama designed plan and that will
probably cost people who don't have
subsidies more money
you